Project Environment & Workflow Summary
1. Environments Overview
Development
Runs locally using Docker Compose.
The main app and database are containerized.
You interact with the app via docker compose up, docker compose exec app bash, etc.
Asset compilation, migrations, and Rails commands are run inside the app container.
Source code is edited on the host and mounted into the container.
Debugging is done with browser DevTools, Rails logs, and by editing files directly.
Example commands:
docker compose up
docker compose exec app bash
bundle exec rake assets:clobber (inside container)
bundle exec rake assets:precompile (inside container)
Testing
Used for automated and/or manual tests.
May use a separate Docker Compose file (e.g., docker-compose.testing.yml).
Database and app are isolated from development and production.
Test data and migrations are managed independently.
May run CI/CD pipelines or local test runs in this environment.
Production
Runs on a remote server or cloud environment.
Not containerized by default (unless you have a production Docker setup).
Uses a production database and environment variables.
Assets are precompiled and served statically.
Security, performance, and reliability are prioritized.
Deployment is typically done via git push, Capistrano, or other deployment tools.
2. Key Project Details
Main app directory: /home/tamir/projects/2.3.1
Legacy/CRC3 project: /home/tamir/projects/CRC3
Source control: Git, with branches like testing-deploy
Asset pipeline: Rails Sprockets (JS/CSS managed via manifest files)
Database: PostgreSQL (containerized in dev/testing)
Migrations: Managed via Rails, reflected in db/schema.rb
JS Debugging: Use of defensive checks for App.*.initialize() to prevent missing modules from breaking the app
Annotation system: Comments, author, and date display logic is in ERB partials (e.g., app/views/legislation/annotations/_comments.html.erb)
Typical workflow:
Edit code locally
Rebuild/restart Docker containers as needed
Precompile assets inside the container
Test in browser
Commit and push changes to GitHub
3. Special Notes
Permissions: Sometimes you may need to fix file permissions (e.g., with chown -R) if you see EACCES errors.
Asset issues: If JS/CSS changes don’t show up, always try assets:clobber and assets:precompile inside the container, then hard refresh the browser.
Untracked files: Be mindful of new files not yet added to git, especially in migrations or new features.
Legacy code: When upgrading from CRC3, check for missing features or markup by comparing ERB partials and JS logic.
4. How to Start Contextless
If you ever need to start from scratch or explain your setup to a new developer (or AI assistant), provide:
The environment you’re working in (dev, test, prod)
Whether you’re using Docker or not
The main app directory and any legacy directories
The branch you’re working on
Any recent changes to the asset pipeline, migrations, or deployment process
